Very good. All right. Well, welcome along to the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and
Trade Committee. We are very excited to be considering
the India-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement.
We have 30 minutes set down to hear from you this morning.
Welcome, some introductory comments from you, and then we'll jump into questions.
Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you this morning.
I want to acknowledge also my colleagues here from a range of agencies who've been
closely involved in the negotiations.
So it's not just a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
There's been a cross-agency effort on this.
I want to acknowledge
and appreciate that as well. I thought what I'd do is I'd give a very short
snapshot of the current context in which we were negotiating the agreement with
India, and then proceed to introduce some of the key elements, and then, of course,
stand by to answer comments and questions.
So the overall context in which we're negotiating, and I know you've heard me
speak about this before,
but it really is the case that during the period we were negotiating this
agreement,
in the international trade system, the jungle was certainly growing back.
Things are becoming more turbulent, more uncertain,
and all of the major
trading blocks in the world are increasingly
ignoring or breaking those international trade rules on which we
relied for so long.
And that's a non-trivial shift in terms of the way we've
understood the world.
And it's for that reason the minister spoke last night to the New Zealand Institute
of International Affairs, gave the annual lecture there,
and he described in more detail the challenges that we face.
But he also spoke about there being three particular trade policy elements we're
going to focus on as we
look out ahead. He talked about rules,
resilience, and innovation. On the rules
front, that's a very orthodox response to the challenge we face.
It's a recognition that the WTO is under pressure, but we will continue to invest
in that multilateral organization.
But at the same time, we still need other rules to be developed, and the free trade
agreement with India is an example of the kinds of rules we can get that give
us certainty and give us some advantage as we hope into that market.
On resilience,
there are a number of elements to that that the minister described in his speech.
Just to highlight that last week in that resilience space, we
negotiated and concluded, and the minister signed
a new wave type of agreement,
which was the agreement on trade and essential supplies with Singapore.
A very important world first agreement between the two of us,
attached to our wider strategic partnership, but an example
of how we're trying to build resilience into our system to secure supply lines,
particularly fuel, but not only fuel, plastics, polymers, and a whole range of
other products. And so we're now needing to think about how we
recalibrate the way in which we think about our trade agreements.
Can we add more of those kinds of agreements to our existing structures?
So we're looking at what we might do at CPTPP.
We're thinking about how we work together with other countries to
secure those supply lines, and that's a relatively
unorthodox way of thinking about trade policy in a way we haven't had to
previously. Then finally, on innovation,
the minister talked, of course, about the EU CPTPP dialogue
that the Prime Minister's been championing,
including through his first conversation with President von der Leyen last
year, to really drive this forward.
And very significantly, I think, out of the Cameroon WTO ministerial, the meeting
between CPTPP and the EU members,
the EU commissioner,
resulted in an agreement that we would start looking at a negotiation of a digital
trade agreement block to block. So again, sort of a new
way of thinking about how we're going to construct rules.
And the other element that the minister talked about is
a year before Prime Minister Carney talked about rupture.
And I think we in the trade world don't think of it as rupture.
We do think the system is battered and bruised, to use the minister's phrase,
but it is not yet broken.
So even a year before
Prime Minister Carney talked about medium-sized powers working together,
small states were already moving into that space.
So Singapore, New Zealand, UAE, and Switzerland, we got together fully a
year before Prime Minister Carney's speech and started talking about what do small
states need to do, how do we need to work together, and how do we build
confidence and certainty for our exporters in a world that is certainly
a much more challenging and darkening one.
So to that extent,
the Future Investment Trade Partnership was established, and this year in July,
Minister Maclay will host 15 of his trade ministerial counterparts,
where we will be talking about what do we need to do on paperless trade
in the digital space, what could we do in the area of
non-tariff barriers, how do we work together to push back against that kind of
protectionism. And then third, we hope to launch some work amongst as many
of us as possible on new disciplines and rules and subsidies.
So that's the context in which we were then pursuing this
very orthodox trade agreement with
India. And the agreement with India
is being driven by essentially three
elements in addition to that contextual element I described.
The first is a recognition that
we need to have a level playing field in India.
So one of the key objectives was to, first of all, level the playing field against
some of our key competitors. Australia already has a free trade agreement with
India.
The UK had concluded one during our negotiations.
The EU has now concluded and was in the midst of negotiating whilst we
were negotiating.
The four EFTA states, Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Iceland, had also
concluded an agreement. So India was clearly moving into a different space, and we
were very rapidly seeingThe damage that that was doing to our
exporters in the market, and I want to provide you some examples of that in a
second. So the first objective of the agreement, level the playing field, give us
an advantage in the Indian market.
The second one was a recognition that
we needed to find a way to dock into this important market.
It's not the 1.4 billion
population, it's actually the middle class that we're focused on.
A growing middle class that will be within five years, it will be
larger than the entire population of the EU and larger than the entire
population of the 10 ASEAN member states.
And that middle class has a growing taste for high quality,
safe, sustainable food, exactly the kind of products
that New Zealand can provide. So we needed to find a way to
access that market and to find a way to dock ourselves into it,
while at the same time trying to make sure we could catch up with our competitors
in that market. Look, the third reason goes very much to my contextual
observation. The world is a much more challenging place, and New Zealand exporters
need to have that optionality that this new opening
now provides us. So those three reasons, the leveling the playing field, getting an
advantage, access to that middle class, and third, that
optionality for New Zealand exporters was a really important driver of the what we
look to do here.
Let me briefly mention some of the goods outcomes, and then I'll talk about
services, and then I did want to say a few words on investment.
Maybe to make the obvious observation
on goods,
to take the classical example we've used frequently here is
for sheep meat, and wool, the tariff is eliminated on entry into force of the
agreement. That is very important to New Zealand.
It's easy to forget that less than four years ago, New Zealand dominated
imports, India's import of
imports of sheep meat. We accounted for 85% of India's
imports of sheep meat.
Australia concluded its free trade agreement.
It eliminated on day one for its exporters, the 33%
tariff on sheep meat.
Three years later, we now account for 9% of
the Indian import market. The Australians, just over
90%, with the British now with their agreement also now entering that
market. It is simply not sustainable for New Zealand exporters to
compete when they have to pay $33 for every $100
they send, and their Australian competitors pay zero.
If you look at fish and seafood,
the Australians saw an immediate uptick in their exports,
269% increase, while we saw a 67%
decline. Again, showing the
unsustainability of competing when you're paying a 33% tariff and
your competitors are at zero.
Perhaps to talk about forestry as well, because that is an increasingly important
part of the optionality diversification story.
There again, we saw what happened to Australia, 119%
increase.
And for us, a decline by nearly
20% over those last three years.
So again, this is an emerging
challenge, and what the FTA does, it immediately puts us at least on an even
footing with our key competitors in that market.
Of course, India has significant sensitivities, as was
made vividly clear to us every time we went into the negotiations with India.
It had never given access for apples,
for kiwifruit, for honey.
So key priorities, and of course, dairy, and I want to come to dairy specifically.
So that was a very difficult part of the negotiation, which was only resolved at
the very end as the most difficult issues often are in a negotiation.
And what we secured in both cases is a significant preference and
advantage for New Zealand apples and kiwifruit exporters.
So for apples, for example, there is a quota going to be in place, and a quota
is essentially a set amount of tons that New Zealand can send
to India at a preferential rate. And what we secured
was a tonnage that will reach
45,000 tons. Our current exports
to India over the last three years averaged
23,603 tons.
So we're going to reach 45,000 tons.
The tariff on apples is 50%,
but if you're a New Zealand exporter and you're exporting into this
tariff quota that we've secured, you'll be able to do that at
25%. So offering you a 25-point advantage with your
competitors for those first 45,000 tons, which, as I
said, is
nearly double what we've exported to India over the last three years.
Kiwifruit,
33% tariff there.
Over the last three years, we exported
3,984
tons.
So 3,984 tons.
We have a quota of 15,000 tons, so nearly
four times greater than our
average exports. That's at a zero quota.
Significantly, though, what we've also secured is a
out-of-quota rate which is even lower, which is at
16.5%.
So that means that within the quota, it's tariff free, but out of
quota, we also have a 50% advantage over our competitors
in the market.
Honey, a super sensitive topic in India,
and a very difficult one for us to negotiate, and to give you a sense of how
challenging it is to get into the market, the tariff is
66%.Over the last three
years, we sent roughly two tons of honey to
India.
What we've secured for New Zealand honey exporters, Manuka honey
exporters that have to be certified by NPI,
is a tariff that will reduce from 66% to
16.5% for Manuka honey from New Zealand
for 200 tons.
And then outside of that tariff, if the product comes in at
greater than $30 a kilogram,
we will be having unlimited access to the Indian market.
So no restrictions at all, still paying a 16.5% tariff
while our competitors are at 66%.
And the Indians will create a special,
what's called an X out in their tariff schedule to recognize that this is a
particular product, Manuka honey
from New Zealand.
Finally, on goods, to mention wine.
The tariff on wine in India is 150%, so
very significant way of constraining access into the
market.
Our challenge is, of course, the Australians have a deal, and they had a cut.
And what we've secured is equivalence with Australia.
So the 150% tariff goes immediately to
75%, and then over the next 10 years, reduces to
25 and 50%, depending on the
value of your wine that you're exporting.
So it's good to be on a level playing field with the Australians and the British.
But what we've most significantly got, we future-proofed the position of wine in
the Indian market. Specifically, we have what's known as a most favored nation
provision, which means that whatever access India gives to any
other country will automatically come back to New Zealand.
That's not an academic point, because the European Union has now concluded its deal
with India and got a better deal than New Zealand and Australia.
Not a lot better, but
a better deal.
But fortunately, we have this agreement
which ensures that we will automatically get what the European Union gets.
So in other words, we are always going to be at the level playing field with all
of our competitors who also have free trade agreements
with India.
Turning to services very quickly to make two observations.
Actually, sorry, I should say something about dairy.
So dairy, this was the big disappointment of the agreement.
And
there is no way around it.
On the orthodox elements that we would normally consider part of an agreement,
butter, cheese, milk powders,
India flatly refused
even to engage with us. There were moments when there were
threatened walkouts, including at ministerial level, when we persisted in seeking
an outcome for dairy.
So it is the case that this agreement does not include those classical elements,
butter, cheese, skim milk powder.
It is also the case that no other country has secured access
in any of those products either.
What we have secured,
and it's not nothing, what we have secured is tariff
elimination for bulk infant formula,
for peptones, which is an ingredient that you'd
use for protein shakes and probiotic
drinks and so on, and also for albumins.
And these were things that were resolved right at the end of the negotiation.
They were extremely difficult. But they are significant
for us that we at least got a measure of access.
Two other important elements to the dairy outcome.
The first is that we also have secured
tariff-free access for New Zealand ingredients into
processing by Indian processors, dairy processors,
who will then re-export it. In other words, the product cannot enter the Indian
market, but as long as it goes into a process that then gets shipped out
to any of India's neighbors or any of the other markets where
India wants to export to, then the New Zealand product enters
duty-free. So again, that advantage, this is the
10 to 42% tariff that exists,
having that eliminated to be used as an ingredient in Indian processing and
export is a potential benefit from
this agreement as well. And-
All right. Look, I'm just conscious of time, so we will come to questions now.
But can I just, before we do that, acknowledge all the work your team's put in.
Appreciate the effort. I think it is fantastic
agreements that have been achieved through this, and absolutely back New
Zealand businesses to be able to compete on a level playing field.
Now with those areas where it is now level, I think that will provide a great
opportunity. So thank you for the work that's been put into this.
First question, Dr Lawrence Yun.
Thank you. I want to focus on the economic-- Thank you, Chair, and again,
echoing the work that you and your team have done.
Thank you.
Just on the economic effect. So looking at figure one of
the NIA, it talks about the
real GDP,
I guess, value of the agreement
up to 2050, 0.1% of our GDP.
So I guess putting a real monetary value,
you're talking about an entrance into a market of 12 trillion
by 2030, yet the GDP value would value at about
258 million. Even by,
let's say, 2046, which is supposed to be where we're
ending the 20-year investment under the investment clause of New Zealand,
$33 billion into-- So we're investing
$33 billion of New Zealand dollars into India,
and the real GDP value of what we get out of this agreement
is 500 million. That's one-fortieth of how much we're
putting in. I agree with the level playing field, but how is this a
good deal for New Zealand economically when
the economic numbers are so out of balance?
So if I can make two observations on it.
The first is,
the modeling that we used in this NIA, as we have used in
previous agreements dating right back to the China free trade agreement, I was
involved in that,
both the negotiation and indeed in the modeling work.
The modeling and the way in which we model is we use the existing
levels of trade. We give the model a shock, and then it drives the
outcomes.
It is almost certain that the model understates the
benefits to New Zealand of the agreement.
So to give you a concrete example, we estimated in the China free trade agreement
that it would add between $170 to $200 million of
additional exports every year over the next 20 years.
That was plainly wrong. That was plainly an understatement.
Similarly, in the EU free trade agreement,
we've added, as Minister Maclay recently announced, nearly $3
billion of additional exports to the European Union.
That was not a figure that we would have reached in 20 years according to the
model. So the modeling gives you a sense and a
flavor of the way in which the outcome goes.
But traditionally, we found that the modeling that we've used has always been at
the conservative end of the spectrum.
May I make a second observation on your comment on the investment
element? Because I think that is an important point to clarify.
The commitment by New Zealand is,
in article 9.2, it says New Zealand shall promote
FDI.
Mm-hmm.
So the commitment is to shall promote,
and then with the aim to increase.
So the commitment, which was very carefully drafted, working closely with our
Indian colleagues, so it's well understood,
is to promote investment.
It is not to reach the target.
Mm-hmm.
We have to, in good faith, and as a serious partner, we do need
to show and demonstrate to India that we are promoting investment
there. But it is clear that the New Zealand government cannot give or
invest 20 billion US dollars or 34 billion New
Zealand dollars. That is not the way investment works in New Zealand.
So the commitment was very carefully drafted to promote the investment.
So we will need to ensure that New Zealand companies, when they come to India,
are alert to the investment opportunities that undoubtedly will exist there.
Mm-hmm.
India has set up a special
New Zealand-only investment desk where New Zealand companies can go for information
and for assistance to facilitate investment into
India. But as I said, the commitment is to promote.
Just-
Yeah. Now, just on that though, I want to
expand a bit on the
process for what happens if that's not achieved, because absolutely agree under
9.2, it's quite clear it's an aim to increase, not a
requirement, targeting 20 billion US.
Once you get further through, if it gets to the point
down the track after the 15 years that the
20 billion US has not been achieved,
then there is a process that can be gone through, right?
So there's an investment committee, they can debate it, they can make
recommendations, or if they can't reach agreement on it, then it gets escalated to
a joint commission. If they can't reach agreement, it gets escalated to ministers.
Ultimately though, under article 9.10,
if India determines that New Zealand has not fulfilled its commitment set out in
9.2, i.e. the aim, not the dollar amount, but the
aim.
So it could just be that their view is that we haven't put sufficient effort
into it, then they may undertake proportionate remedial
measures to rebalance the concessions provided, i.e. tariffs.
Yeah.
And then further down under sub clause three,
those remedial measures remain in place until the investment
objective has been achieved. Not until the
9.2 general aim has been achieved, but the specific
20 billion target has been achieved.
And to me, that suggests that actually there is a mechanism for them to
ultimately say, "Look, yes, you only had to try.
We don't think you've tried. Now we're putting tariffs back in place until you hit
20 billion US."
And it's unilateral.
And I'm interested in your assessment of that.
Yeah. So
this has been very carefully drafted, obviously
working with our Indian colleagues, and there are a number of steps here.
So there is a five-year review, a 10-year review, but the 15-year one
is the key one.
Mm-hmm.
And throughout there are a series of steps.
So the first thing that happens each time, as you've noted,
in article 9.7, the investment committee operates by consensus, and
it has to produce a report
on investment. And
the
report references back to the article itself, which of course is called
investment promotion.
Mm-hmm.
And
it very carefully steps through a series of procedures that we have.
So there's a process through the investment committee.
Then,
within 30 days they have to convene.
Then there's two months,
in other words, 60 days, to try to resolve, and then there can be a further
extension of six months.
But in each case, what the assessment is of, has New Zealand
done enough to promote investment?
Correct.
And that is where we do need to be serious.
Mm-hmm.
So we are going to need to live up to our obligation here, which is to promote that
investment. And let me give you some examples of the kinds of things that we are
thinking of doing.
Well, yeah, sorry, before we do that, I guess my question specifically is what
happens if through all that, because it does require consensus, if the Indian
side are of the firm view that we have not
promoted sufficiently, and we get then to article
9.10 around their ability to reinstate
tariffs and to leave those in place until we do hit
20 billion US?
I would say that if we'd fulfilled our obligations in a serious
way, as we would as a serious country,
I do not believe that that will be a situation we would face.
Yeah.But ultimately they could if they felt that we
hadn't-
I believe that if we were in that situation, then more fundamentally, the bilateral
relationship with India is in serious trouble.
Mm. Sure.
So if they would ignore
a very serious commitment that we are making to promote investment into India-
Mm
... and then they proceeded to do that, then I think we have a more fundamental
problem in the bilateral relationship because-
Okay. Fair call
... these steps involve ministers as well.
Yeah.
So there is-
Yeah, no, I took your letter to be-
... an important opportunity for us to just-
For me as a concern. Okay. Tim Costley.
Can I just ask about visas? Because there's been a lot of commentary in the public,
particularly from some political leaders, about a flood of, for example,
Indian students coming in. So as of today, before this
enters into force, what is the limit that we've had for the last eight
years on how many
Indian students can come into New Zealand each year?
So the current policy is that there is no cap on any,
so not Indian students, but any students.
So whether they-
Yeah, but I'm focused on Indian students in this case. So there is no cap today?
There is currently no cap.
And what is there after this comes into-
And there is no cap on any other students
Just-
So Germans-
Yeah, I understand. So this isn't going
to increase the number of students that can come into New Zealand, this
FTA?
The number of Indian students.
I don't think I could tell you or predict-
Well, if there's no cap today, it cannot physically increase it, can it?
There's no cap, there's no restriction.
There's no limit today.
Right.
So this doesn't allow people that couldn't come in today to come in after this
enters into force, is that correct?
No, there's no change in that
sense.
Right. And if they come in today, how many hours a week can they work while
they study?
So today the current policy is 25-
Mm-hmm. Under this-
... hours a week
... what will that increase to?
So it doesn't increase as a consequence of the agreement.
What the agreement does is it provides a guarantee to India that it will never fall
below 20 hours.
Right. So that's actually lower.
So that's actually lower.
Right. And if they came in today and they got a bachelor's degree, how long could
they stay for and work at the end of that before they had to leave?
So they're able to stay, from memory, an additional
two years.
Is that two years under this agreement or today?
That's today. So the only change that was made was an additional year for PhD
students from three to four years.
Yes.
But all the others are within the existing policy settings.
So
I'm just trying to ask because I know that there's been a lot-- I've had people
come and ask me because they hear some political leader saying there is going to be
a wave of Indian migration. Is
that something that's in this free trade agreement?
So, this agreement offers temporary
employment entry-
But that's to a maximum of 5,000 and-
Over three years, yes
... the vast majority over three years.
So on average, sort of 1,600 or something,
and 4,400 of those have to be in areas that are what
skill shortage on the green list that they could already come
today for?
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
So what the
agreement provides for is, as you said, 5,000 visas over three years.
Yes.
1,667 each year.
In order to access the temporary employment entry visas, there are a number
of elements, safeguards, if you like, that are there.
The first, as you alluded to, is the occupational category.
So there is the green list that New Zealand uses where we have a shortage.
So these are skilled occupations that we're talking about.
So IT engineers,
nurses, primary and secondary school teachers, where we have shortages.
And in those cases, an Indian national can apply for temporary employment
entry. They need to have a job offer from an accredited
Immigration New Zealand employer.
And part of that is that they have to demonstrate that this is not a job that could
be done by a New Zealander, that there isn't a New Zealander available to do that
job. In other words, it is indeed a genuine shortage.
So the occupational, then there's the English language
test, then there's the qualification.
So it has to be a tertiary qualification
for most of those categories. There's, in the case of the Indian chefs, which
is one of the iconic occupations-
Yes
... that's a diploma, and some work experience that they need to have
from a recognized institute. So the elements
of the
1,667 per year, 5,000 over three years,
have an additional, the usual character and health tests that we currently apply.
And
there is no pathway to permanent residence or citizenship through the
temporary employment entry FTA visa, and there is a three-year
standout. So after you've had your visa for three
years-
You have to leave
... you must leave, and you cannot reapply for three years.
Okay.
So there are a number of important safeguards that have been put in place
to manage and mitigate some of the challenges that you've identified.
All right, we've got time for a question from Vanisha.
Thank you. Can I just ask a sup on your questions first just to clarify,
and I'll be very brief. If we do fail in terms of that
investment target and the effort required,
and the chair's question was whether India can then say, "We will
put tariffs back on until we meet the target." Is the
target the effort target, or is the target the financial
investment target? Because I was under the view that it was-
Financial investment
... I was under the view that it was the effort target still.
It's the effort.
It's the effort target. Just to clarify.
Well, no, actually, I want to clarify that because it says clearly that remedial
measures shall be terminated only once the investment objective has
been achieved.
In the-
And on the previous page it defines investment objective as US $20
billion.
But I think that clause refers back to the
Article 2.
Yes, the investment objective set out in Article 2.
So you go back to Article 2.
Yes, but then you also look at 9.9 where it says US $20 billion
hereafter-
Is that-
... investment objective.
Yes, that's an unhelpful drafting piece, but I think the first clause applies, in
my
No, that's investment promotion, not investment objective.
Perhaps for the
colleagues.
Yeah. So, the key element is this reference back to Article 9.2-
Yeah
... which is the shall promote.
Yeah.
So that is a really-
So that is-
... important element. That is the thing that we will be tested on, and that is
what the reports that we will have to agree with the investment
committee will need to be done. Of course, from the Indian perspective, the focus
will of course be, okay, so have you got close to that target,
which is the aim, as you said.
But the promotion piece, that's where we need to have-
That's right
... a body of evidence that shows that the New Zealand government has sought to
encourage and promote investment into India, and that can be
done. So for example, when business delegations travel to India-
Yep, sure
... they would be meeting with the investment desk.
So, sorry, why would that term investment objective be used in that clause
if it also goes on to refer about achieving 9.2?
Yeah.
Because the two, why would you mention two different
things if they are the same thing?
So perhaps I'll ask our chief legal counsel to-
Yeah
... sort this.
Thank you, Chair, for the question.
There's an important hurdle before you even get to the remedial measures phase.
So to start consultations in Article 9.9, Paragraph
7, the scope of consultations shall be limited to determining
whether New Zealand has fulfilled its commitment as set out in Article 9.2,
and where applicable, to finding a mutually agreed solution between the parties.
So the commitment set out in Article 9.2 is, as Mr.
Vaitala said-
Yes, is the same
... is a commitment to promote.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yep, fine with that, but in 9.10 it's quite explicit that if
India determines we haven't achieved that aim or
promotion, then they can put tariffs back in place, and they
stay until the investment objective defined under the subclause 9.3,
or mentioned under the subclause 9.3 but defined under the previous 9.9 subclause
2,
US $20 billion herein after investment objective
is achieved.
It's a poor definition of the term in that-
Right
... prior package.
Sorry.
Yeah.
One quick question, then I'll share with you.
Thank you. No, I think that's an important point-
Yes
... because it is fundamental to the agreement.
And so as a very practical issue, I have concerns about the
ongoing investigations by the USTR under
Section 301.
Well, presumably you do as well. Are there practical steps being taken
now, given we have this new agreement, to work with exporters
in terms of how they plan across the next kind of 12
to 24 months and where they might want to realign?
So this is on the US-
Yes
... Section. Yeah.
But connecting to opportunities under the India agreement.
Yeah. So,
it has been frustrating and disappointing that we've been
put on this list of countries which happen to cover
99% of US imports-
Yeah
... for this investigation. And earlier this week there was indeed
an oral discussion with
the investigation,
and we went through the various elements that we've got, including, the Modern
Slavery Bill-
Mm
... which was also picked up in the US system as well.
It is clear that
the forced labor investigation is driven also
by the fact that
the tariff at the moment is 10%. It used to be 15.
Mm.
And it's hard not to think that part of the
effort that the United States is making to find another way to impose an
additional tariff on New Zealand exports,
indeed most exporters into the
US market.
So, as I said in my earlier remarks, the India Free
Trade Agreement offers this new optionality
for companies. So if I think about the forestry sector, which is-
Yeah
... exporting a great deal to the United States, to what extent can we
encourage them, and this is part of the active conversations with all the
exporters, is have a look at this new
market where you now have a level playing field.
In fact, you have some advantages over your competitors.
Think of Chile, for example, which doesn't have a preference into the market.
So yes, we are hoping to answer your question.
Yes, we are hoping that people will start looking at these other things, and there
is active conversations. And I thought it was striking that the
forestry and wood processors' head body was represented at the signing
ceremony, so there's clearly an effort.
And last year, Minister McClay led a delegation of wood processors
to, and forestry owners to India to look at some of those
opportunities. So certainly a big
feature of what we're trying to do with the agreement.
Excellent. All right. Thank you very much for your time today. Appreciate it.
We are running over time now, so we will have to leave it there.
But
we will be hearing from submitters over the course of the next few weeks, which I'm
sure you'll be engaging with as well.
And look forward to-
And Mr. Chair, can we put questions-
... process
... can we put questions that might be for the address we weren't able to ask here?
We'll discuss that.
Sure.
Wonderful. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.